Okay.
So one of the U.S. store state now has a selected organisations property which will start out as an
empty array.
Eventually, when view is alerted that there is a new array of selected organisations.
We want to update this slice of state.
While whenever we want to modify the existing view state, we have to run a mutation.
So I want to define that mutation method, but once again we're going to follow a test driven development
approach, which means we're going to write our test first, then we're going to write the implementation.
So right here in my test file of index, that test that yes, we have a whole section where we are writing
our tests for mutations.
So right here within this described block I'm going to create another described BLOCK And I'm going
to write a test that's going to test the solution that I want to have.
So right here, I'll describe a sample mutation and let's say we'll call this mutation, add selected
organizations.
So right here, add selected organizations.
And then we're going to write the code we wish we had.
So.
What is this mutation going to be responsible for?
It updates organizations that the user.
Has chosen to filter jobs by trying to be as explicit as I can in describing the value of this mutation
and how it pertains to the Duke store.
Okay.
So as always, the same testing principles apply.
Remember, our mutation is going to be a plain JavaScript method, and the first argument to mutation
will always be the current view X store state.
And if we want to provide any secondary arguments, they must come after the first parameter, which
is always going to be the state and which view X will automatically pass in.
So in this scenario, we're going to have an implementation that is very similar to our received jobs
mutation.
Our first argument is going to be the state, and the second argument is going to be the array of strings,
the array of organizations.
So the way that it works in our component is we're always going to get a brand new array and we're always
going to pass that array up into the mutation.
In other words, we're not just going to get the new string or anything like that.
We're going to get the new array that stores all of the currently selected checkbox organizations.
So what I'm really getting at is whatever array we get, we can feel comfortable overriding the current
selected organization's property in our view state.
Because the new array we get represents the most up to date version of that state.
Right?
So right here, let's write a test.
I'm going to begin by starting with a basic piece of state, and it's going to be an object that's going
to have a property of selected organizations set to an empty array.
Once again, we do not need to emulate the entire view extra state so we don't care about the is logged
in or jobs property because as far as the mutation is concerned, the mutation only cares about having
a state object with this property because this is the one it's eventually going to modify.
So I have my mutations object imported into this test file and I'm going to assume on my mutations object.
There's now going to be a method called ADD Selected Organizations.
That's the exact same name I chose above and just like we talked about with mutations.
The first argument is always going to be the state.
So we're going to pass in our sample state above.
And the second argument can be whatever we want.
So obviously in this case, it's going to be the new array of organizations that the user has selected
based on the checkboxes that we have in our component.
So for example, let's just provide an array of two values maybe or one for organization one and or
two.
It really doesn't matter how many strings we have in this array.
All we really care about is whatever array we get here.
After the mutation is done running, we expect our state to have this new array that we are receiving.
So after my mutation is complete and my state has been modified, I expect that my original state object
is going to be different.
It should now equal an object.
But still going to have a selected organization's property.
However, instead of being an empty array, we want it to be this array that we received.
So right here, after the mutation is done, we expect that we have overwritten our original selected
organization's property in our View X Store, and that's what we're testing here.
All right.
So, of course, our test is going to fail.
The first failure we're going to get predictably is that that mutation does not exist.
So as always, let's use try to just to make it happen, to make it pass.
So the first thing I need to do is to make sure a mutation like this exists.
So right here, I'm going to define a constant that I'm going to export.
And the only reason I'm putting it here is because it's tangentially related to organizations.
Later on, we may split our constants based on the responsibility, but for now, I'm just going to
put all my constants up here.
All right.
So I'm going to say add selected organizations.
Once again, we're defining a constant because that avoids the chance for typos.
Later, we're going to use this constant as our mutation name and later on in a component.
If we want to use something like map mutations, we can easily import this constant and make sure we
have the correct string value.
So let me just double check that my typing is correct here.
Add selected organizations right here.
Add selected organizations.
It looks good.
Then in my mutations object right here, I'm going to use that constant to define a method of the same
name.
And as always, we know that the very first argument, the automatic thing that view X will pass into
a mutation when it runs, it is going to be the current view X Store state and the other arguments are
up to us and we defined in our test that we are going to pass in a argument of the array of organizations.
So right here I'm going to define a parameter of organizations.
So what this basically means, as in our component, whenever we commit this mutation, we have to make
sure that we provide the array because this mutation expects an argument in addition to the implicit
one, a state, it expects an explicit one that we will provide the array of strings representing the
user's selected organizations.
So right here, let me just provide my.
Function syntax and save this just so we can move on to the very next error.
Right now we should see that we move on to a different error because now the mutation exists.
So now our test is going to tell us the failure.
Hey, you told me that the object should have a selected organization's property.
That's going to be an array of these two values.
Or one and or two.
But actually selected organizations is an array with no values.
That's exactly what we expect, because right now we're not doing anything in our mutation.
So let's make our mutation do exactly what it's supposed to do.
It's going to take the current view store state represented by the first parameter state.
And on that state, we're going to have a selected organization's property right here.
And I want to take it and I want to overwrite it with the new array of strings that I'm receiving represented
by my organization's property.
Right.
And we're always again going to be getting a new array.
So it's totally alright to replace our property with the new array.
It's not like we have to concatenate it or, you know, extract its individual elements.
We're not adding on to an original array, we're not trying to preserve the original elements.
We're getting an organization's array that represents the most up to date version of selected organizations,
and we're simply overwriting our original property each and every time this mutation runs.
So the user's going to click a checkbox.
We're going to have an array with one string, we're going to overwrite the state of the View Store.
Then the user is going to click another checkbox.
Now the array will have two strings.
We're going to get that array of two strings.
The second time this mutation runs were once again going to replace it, etc. If you have three mutations,
etc. If the user removes a mutation or removes a organization, we get an array of one less value.
We once again continue overwriting the selected organization's property each time this mutation runs.
And again, our intent in the component is to commit this mutation every single time the user interacts
with the checkbox.
So I'm going to save this code and with that we should see a passing test.
We.
And indeed we do.
So now we have our view next door state.
We have a mutation that's going to override it.
And in the very next lesson, we can bring it all together by having our component commit this mutation
and save the array of selected values every time the user works with a checkbox.